Caption: thank you so much these stage lights
Caption: nearly bright enough I can still see
Caption: everyone well hey y'all I am so excited
Caption: to be here i i i've been so impressed
Caption: with this conference with everyone that
Caption: I've met in the past few days the
Caption: organizers hearing about all the the
Caption: volunteers and and everything that goes
Caption: into making this event happen all the
Caption: hype that led up to this event it it
Caption: turned out exactly as I expected it's
Caption: really really incredible I've been so
Caption: impressed and I've had such a great time
Caption: here in Perth everyone has been so
Caption: welcoming and and I've had a I had a
Caption: great time someone I went to the the
Caption: rottenest yesterday and someone said I
Caption: can't tell where the quokka ends and the
Caption: beard beat begins at a fantastic time I
Caption: also went to Kings Park and yeah I have
Caption: sure enjoyed my time in Perth so far
Caption: believe it I mean it's hard to believe
Caption: but it's been almost 18 years since the
Caption: original Xbox was launched and me and my
Caption: my sons we had one of these and our
Caption: favorite one of our favorite games on
Caption: the old xbox was ty the Tasmanian Tiger
Caption: and yeah you you know if you've played
Caption: it you probably think well that's you
Caption: know it's an awful representation of
Caption: Australia right but we learned a lot
Caption: about Australia through this game I mean
Caption: all my experience of with Australia has
Caption: has been through this game up to this
Caption: point it's you know ty the tiger
Caption: he taught us things like bonzi and you
Caption: beauty and you little rip I I don't know
Caption: what a Ripper is but it sounded great
Caption: there was also Ken the Ranger Ranger Ken
Caption: he he taught us phrases like good a kapa
Caption: and you're dead set legend might and our
Caption: favorite character Mari he's kind of
Caption: like the guide through the game and he
Caption: taught us phrases like Thai might strike
Caption: me lucky stop mucking about
Caption: well that's rare as hen's teeth mate you
Caption: got a fair dinkum rainbow scale and my
Caption: favorite strength so even to this day
Caption: when I'm talking with my son's either we
Caption: get together and we're talking over the
Caption: phone one of these is gonna come up you
Caption: know I'm talking to my son Benjamin in
Caption: Nashville and he strays I don't know
Caption: what's truth means but it sounds great
Caption: now I'm from the south in the u.s. deep
Caption: in the heart of the south as we say and
Caption: I speak fluent redneck and I thought
Caption: it's only fair that I teach you some
Caption: southern slang so that you can impress
Caption: your friends and co-workers what do you
Caption: think all right so you've heard me say
Caption: y'all so let me explain there's more
Caption: nuance to this than just y'all it's so
Caption: when you're talking to one person you're
Caption: gonna say you but if you mean a few
Caption: people or a bunch of people you can say
Caption: y'all there's another variation though
Caption: that if you mean everyone you say all
Caption: y'all
Caption: so to give you an example all y'all need
Caption: to let the organizers and volunteers of
Caption: DDD purse know yet again how
Caption: appreciative you are for this day
Caption: [Applause]
Caption: like - this is pronounced like - and
Caption: when I realized the example hang on a
Caption: second when I realized that I was going
Caption: to take four planes in 36 hours to get
Caption: the Perth's I like to crap my pants like
Caption: that fixin to you're about to do
Caption: something but you ain't done it yet in
Caption: the South people are always fixing to do
Caption: something so I'm fixing to throw up rip
Caption: out this code cuz it ain't worked the
Caption: hill of beans over yonder and over over
Caption: yonder is like you're giving directions
Caption: you can't see it but it's in this
Caption: general direction like over yonder is
Caption: rottnest island somewhere or even say
Caption: Ovar is the coffee and snacks or slap
Caption: out that's when you're real tired after
Caption: all that walking around rotten s and
Caption: kings I at Kings Park I was war slap out
Caption: piddlin now this might be close to your
Caption: mucking about stop peddling with that
Caption: database and come over and help me with
Caption: this code and then dang
Caption: it's an all-time favorite in the south
Caption: and there's useful for a lot of
Caption: situations something bad happens
Caption: dang something good happens dang
Caption: and then you got Dangs cousin daggum
Caption: it's also useful in a variety of
Caption: situations and then dagnabbit
Caption: another good variation so dagnabbit
Caption: that's where I'm fixing to throw this
Caption: code out the bad gun window so now you
Caption: can talk some redneck too
Caption: that's worth the price of admission
Caption: right there dang straight darn tootin
Caption: all right so some of you are really
Caption: excited you've been soaking up lots and
Caption: lots of content today and you can't wait
Caption: to get back to your unsuspecting
Caption: coworkers and unleash all your new
Caption: knowledge in a one big swoop right some
Caption: of you on the other hand may be feeling
Caption: a little bit overwhelmed or anxious
Caption: you're probably thinking how am I going
Caption: to learn all this new stuff and how am I
Caption: going to convince my boss to let me do
Caption: any of these new things and I'm up here
Caption: to you know close out the day and throw
Caption: a bunch of much more new information at
Caption: you what can we talk about well we could
Caption: talk about the future of computing being
Caption: serviced whatever the heck that means
Caption: serverless yes or we could talk about
Caption: IOT and machine learning artificial
Caption: intelligence these are all really hot
Caption: topics and you should be connecting
Caption: everything in your household to the
Caption: cloud and reaping all the benefits or we
Caption: could talk about the latest JavaScript
Caption: framework that's has created only a
Caption: couple hours ago
Caption: you should be dropping everything that
Caption: you've done and and switch to this new
Caption: framework what I want to do though is I
Caption: want to give you maybe a new lens to see
Caption: your world a bigger lens maybe I think
Caption: maybe one of the most important things
Caption: you can come away with is a fresh
Caption: perspective on your life and your career
Caption: I'm here to tell you that you are
Caption: awesome you may not realize it yet but
Caption: you are born with some pretty fantastic
Caption: you know skills and and
Caption: you know amazing tools unfortunately all
Caption: of us have had to deal with lies as we
Caption: got older more and more of these lives
Caption: have crept in to our our minds people
Caption: have you know there's lies that people
Caption: have told us there's lies that the world
Caption: has told us and the lies that we've
Caption: we've actually told ourselves we compare
Caption: ourselves to others and we think well I
Caption: don't measure up you know that that
Caption: person is really awesome I can't be like
Caption: that person but that's a lot of bull and
Caption: I've challenged you to stop listening to
Caption: those lies instead I want to give you
Caption: some truths that you can you can start
Caption: to think about so maybe you can repeat
Caption: these to yourselves you are smart you're
Caption: here you've learned a lot of stuff you
Caption: are in a such a small percentage of the
Caption: world the things that you do with
Caption: computers and software and programming
Caption: design I mean that's magic for 99% of
Caption: the world you are strong you are
Caption: beautiful you can see
Caption: maybe metaphorically so sing through the
Caption: code that you write the things that you
Caption: create you are loved you're loved right
Caption: now you deserve to be loved and you will
Caption: be loved in the future you are not a
Caption: failure making mistakes is a part of
Caption: life mistakes are inevitable you look at
Caption: any successful person they are standing
Caption: on a burning trash heap of mistakes
Caption: mistakes don't make you a failure you
Caption: are not broken the thing that makes you
Caption: different that makes you unique also
Caption: makes you incredibly valuable it's not
Caption: something to be ashamed of it should be
Caption: something that you embrace and make the
Caption: most of you are wonderful
Caption: you matter to someone you are valuable
Caption: valuable than all the gold and money in
Caption: the world you are never too far gone
Caption: don't give up on yourself you belong you
Caption: are amazing
Caption: you are awesome so you are not defined
Caption: by those lies that you may that may be
Caption: swimming around in your head your
Caption: there's no need to compare yourself to
Caption: others you are the most awesome person
Caption: that you will ever meet you are born
Caption: with an insatiable desire to learn and
Caption: explore you have the capacity to achieve
Caption: far more than you can might have ever
Caption: imagined
Caption: you're never too young or too old to
Caption: learn something new creativity and
Caption: imagination those are like a muscle the
Caption: more you use them the stronger it's
Caption: going to get and the more powerful they
Caption: will become you still have this muscle
Caption: but some of you may need to blow the
Caption: dust off and start using them again now
Caption: four years ago I discovered I had a
Caption: passion for drawing okay it's more like
Caption: this and I started out I was inspired by
Caption: a guy who wrote a book called
Caption: show-and-tell and I started by drawing
Caption: crude stick figures lines and arrows and
Caption: shapes and that was it I mean these were
Caption: these were craptastic drawings but I had
Caption: so much fun doing it and became you know
Caption: a hobby of mine I I didn't want to stop
Caption: and about three years ago I drew this
Caption: for one of my talks and some of you may
Caption: recognize it as being the ShamWow
Caption: you know cheesy sales guy and I was so
Caption: proud of this drawing it took me a long
Caption: time to do it I made a lot of mistakes
Caption: and go back in a race and draw things
Caption: again but it had the effect that I
Caption: wanted and people would chuckle and they
Caption: they enjoyed it and I would show this
Caption: any time I was about to give a a demo
Caption: well about a year ago I decided I want
Caption: to try drawing the same thing again you
Caption: know see if I could do do any better and
Caption: I did and I was like oh my goodness I
Caption: can't believe how much better I can draw
Caption: now I I was shocked by how far I had
Caption: progressed in drawing no I'm not telling
Caption: you this story to brag or to you know
Caption: puff myself in up anyway or whatever I
Caption: am truly amazed that I've been able to
Caption: get as far as I've come
Caption: continuing to get better and I had this
Caption: aha moment well duh I've been investing
Caption: so much time in doing this well yeah of
Caption: course I would have gotten better and I
Caption: realized that just like learning a new
Caption: programming language learning a new
Caption: musical instrument any of those kinds of
Caption: things you've got to invest some time in
Caption: and people will tell me that wow you are
Caption: so gifted and I say no I don't think
Caption: that's it at all the gift is perhaps
Caption: that spark that desire that passion for
Caption: pursuing something the the gift really
Caption: is every day that we're given we have
Caption: another opportunity to choose how we
Caption: spend our time and to invest in
Caption: something that we that were excited
Caption: about that we enjoy and I the rest of it
Caption: is is the time and effort that you're
Caption: willing to put into following that dream
Caption: I believe without a doubt that whatever
Caption: it is that you want to do or want to get
Caption: better at you can do it I think it only
Caption: takes three essential ingredients that
Caption: for you to have determination for you to
Caption: practice and for you to have some
Caption: patience some patience with yourself
Caption: because making slow incremental uh you
Caption: know practice every day it's gonna seem
Caption: like you're not making any progress at
Caption: all but over time you can look back and
Caption: say wow I can't believe how far I've
Caption: come
Caption: you know this about writing code right
Caption: you look back on something that you
Caption: wrote six months ago or a year ago and
Caption: say who wrote that crap oh yeah I did
Caption: and you know you progress and you get
Caption: better because you're doing it on a
Caption: regular basis now we love stories about
Caption: heroes there's something about that hero
Caption: story that resonates in us
Caption: often times the hero doesn't realize
Caption: what they're capable of or until someone
Caption: or something you know fantastic comes
Caption: along that kind of inspires them or or
Caption: draws that awesomeness out of them
Caption: now based on everyone that I've spoken
Caption: to over the last few days you guys are
Caption: are awesome I mean I bet you go out and
Caption: punch sharks on a daily basis and not
Caption: even think twice about it this is yeah
Caption: well punch into a shark today you are
Caption: the hero in your story you are capable
Caption: of more than you realize and you can do
Caption: bigger things than you've yet imagined
Caption: so I've said this several times now you
Caption: aren't awesome and we you know I hope
Caption: I've made the case for you to really
Caption: start to internalize that there's a lot
Caption: more to you than maybe what you think
Caption: you can do today I want to encourage you
Caption: to maximize your strengths and to find
Caption: those things that you are passionate
Caption: about and go and pursue them but that's
Caption: not the end of you know there's more to
Caption: your story than just being awesome or
Caption: being really good at some things and
Caption: being passionate I believe that every
Caption: one of us you included have a purpose
Caption: it's not enough just to be awesome you
Caption: were created to share your awesomeness
Caption: with other people I believe that our
Caption: purpose can be summed up and I've heard
Caption: this phrase earlier today that we leave
Caption: it better than we find it and it's not
Caption: just about the campsite and it's not
Caption: just about the our planet
Caption: I believe it's
Caption: for every relationship for every
Caption: encounter your workplace your family
Caption: your friends random people that you meet
Caption: at a conference like this are on the
Caption: street every encounter every situation
Caption: is an opportunity where you can leave it
Caption: better than you found it people are
Caption: watching you like it or not they notice
Caption: how you respond they notice how you
Caption: react in situations how you treat other
Caption: people how you they they are watching
Caption: your character they want to see how you
Caption: react when you take responsibility or
Caption: not or if you keep your word or not or
Caption: you forgive others or not did you know
Caption: that different people have different
Caption: personalities and they have different
Caption: ways of seeing the world when people
Caption: receive them the way people receive
Caption: information how they process information
Caption: how they respond to conflict everybody
Caption: has different experiences in different
Caption: backgrounds and the way they react now
Caption: our industry attracts a lot of people
Caption: with let's say sub-optimal people skills
Caption: we can get we can be productive and get
Caption: quite far in our careers just on our
Caption: technical skills alone
Caption: and most of us you know myself included
Caption: for most of my life I've been you know
Caption: much more comfortable communicating with
Caption: my computer than I have been with the
Caption: people that are around me like it or not
Caption: we are relational beings and we work we
Caption: are designed to live in community with
Caption: one another I submit to you that there
Caption: are three inevitable things in life
Caption: there's death
Caption: and PowerPoint sooner or later it's
Caption: going to happen you're gonna be you know
Caption: required to get up and give some kind of
Caption: presentation whether it's to your team
Caption: or to a group of folks in your company
Caption: you know some may be total strangers
Caption: maybe a wedding I don't know it's gonna
Caption: happen in 2011 I finally got up the
Caption: courage to give my first talk at a
Caption: meet-up and I stink I was terrible but a
Caption: funny thing happened I had people come
Caption: up to me and tell me to my face that I
Caption: did a great job that I mean I was
Caption: convinced I was the worst speaker in
Caption: speaker history it took a while for it
Caption: to sink in but I learned a really you
Caption: know important and valuable lesson about
Caption: the power of community there are people
Caption: out there in this world you probably
Caption: know some who are just amazing at being
Caption: human who will look past your mistakes
Caption: who will see the good and potential that
Caption: is in you and will encourage you to do
Caption: hard things like share your you know get
Caption: up in front of a meet-up because when
Caption: you do hard stuff like that everyone
Caption: benefits I hope every day I'm a little
Caption: bit more like one of those kinds of
Caption: people that's always encouraging and
Caption: helping others to be more awesome here's
Caption: one of my favorite quotes
Caption: when I gave my first talk people didn't
Caption: remember that I fumbled around with a
Caption: demo failure I you know the they didn't
Caption: remember maybe even the technology or
Caption: whatever it was that I was speaking
Caption: about but in they remember me and that
Caption: in some small way I helped them with
Caption: their their life or their career in 2016
Caption: I had the privilege of giving a keynote
Caption: at Music City code in Nashville
Caption: Tennessee which is where I used to live
Caption: and I had more than one person come up
Caption: to me that you know I told the same
Caption: story about how I got started and how I
Caption: was terrible at my first talk and I had
Caption: people coming up to me afterwards to say
Caption: I was there I remember when you gave
Caption: your first talk and you're right you
Caption: were terrible Thanks now you may be
Caption: thinking well I understand being asked
Caption: or forced to speak but why would I why
Caption: would I have volunteer to speak when
Caption: that's like the worst thing you could
Caption: possibly ask me to do it's terrifying
Caption: and it is but let me tell you having
Caption: someone not only understand that message
Caption: that you're trying to communicate but
Caption: then be inspired to go and do that thing
Caption: that you're talking about and do things
Caption: that you've not even imagined could be
Caption: done with that that thing that you're
Caption: talking about that's one of the most
Caption: rare and precious rewards I have ever
Caption: experienced and public speaking is an
Caption: amazing skill that you can learn to
Caption: share your awesomeness with others and
Caption: it can open doors and opportunities and
Caption: launch you ahead as a leader in your
Caption: community and your your company and
Caption: organization
Caption: the truth is public speaking is just one
Caption: example there are so many ways that you
Caption: can share your awesomeness with others
Caption: there's this thing called impostor
Caption: syndrome though that creeps up I believe
Caption: it's one of the biggest reasons why
Caption: people more people don't share their
Caption: knowledge and experiences through
Caption: speaking and so forth you may feel like
Caption: well I don't have anything important to
Caption: share my knowledge is insignificant
Caption: people or just will just scoffer or
Caption: laugh if I try to share you share
Caption: something you know I'm I'm a fraud and I
Caption: feel that way too so many times I've
Caption: taught I've been speaking now for many
Caption: years and I get to meet a lot of other
Caption: speakers this feeling of impostor
Caption: syndrome is universal except for a
Caption: couple of freaks the the key thing
Caption: though is that you don't have to be an
Caption: expert you have something that no one
Caption: else has and that is your experience
Caption: people can argue with semantics and best
Caption: practices or whatever all day long but
Caption: they cannot argue with your experience
Caption: they can't argue with your motivation
Caption: for doing something and for what you've
Caption: learned from your experiences even the
Caption: mistakes that you've made it may sound
Caption: counterintuitive well I don't want to
Caption: share the mistakes well that could be
Caption: the most valuable information that you
Caption: could give someone else to say hey look
Caption: I messed up here and I want you to not
Caption: make the same mistakes I made don't be
Caption: afraid to share your knowledge and
Caption: experience with others
Caption: you ever heard of the Dilbert principle
Caption: it's basically the most ineffective
Caption: workers are systematically promoted to
Caption: the position where they can do the least
Caption: amount of damage just management now
Caption: early in my career I worked underneath a
Caption: boss that exemplified this this Dilbert
Caption: principle I he was he was pretty
Caption: horrible
Caption: and I really didn't like the man
Caption: personally or professionally and his
Caption: incompetence was legendary
Caption: he was notoriously bad mistakes were
Caption: named after him and yet he continued to
Caption: rise in rank and responsibilities a lot
Caption: of the work that I was required to do
Caption: under his direction was of no value to
Caption: anyone for example I was asked to create
Caption: a huge binder of documentation for every
Caption: method every stored procedure for all
Caption: the code that I was you know my team was
Caption: was writing and no one was going to read
Caption: this ever meaningless and pointless work
Caption: is soul-crushing and i toughed it out
Caption: for more than a year but with I did
Caption: everything that I could to get out from
Caption: underneath his management but with no
Caption: hope and insight I took a job working
Caption: somewhere else and I said to myself life
Caption: is too short to work somewhere that
Caption: stinks I started living by this
Caption: philosophy and I started giving it as
Caption: advice to others when I heard them
Caption: complaining about their workplace in
Caption: technology we are very privileged that
Caption: we are in such high demand that we can
Caption: by and large pick and choose where we
Caption: get to work if you don't like where
Caption: you're working there's there's five
Caption: recruiters you know that can't wait to
Caption: network with you right now
Caption: not that that isn't the case for most
Caption: other professions now the problem is
Caption: this idea began to pollute my
Caption: perspective and I when things started to
Caption: go sour I would think oh great here we
Caption: go again time to start looking for a new
Caption: job
Caption: sometime later I was in a similar
Caption: situation I was unhappy with work and
Caption: what you know things that I was doing
Caption: and I started interviewing for other at
Caption: other companies and I had a really
Caption: attractive job offer and I was trying to
Caption: decide whether or not I should accept
Caption: the offer and that's when my wife asked
Caption: me two questions that stopped me in my
Caption: tracks
Caption: she asked have you done everything that
Caption: you can possibly do and if you left now
Caption: would you have any regrets
Caption: fine I declined the job offer and I
Caption: committed to doing everything in my
Caption: power to make my team successful in the
Caption: end I still left that job one year later
Caption: but I left having no regrets and being
Caption: extremely proud of the work that we had
Caption: accomplished it had been one of the most
Caption: prolific years in my entire career sure
Caption: there can be toxic environments there
Caption: can be career limiting situations and
Caption: there can be you know incredible
Caption: opportunities that come along that
Caption: justify changing a job but for
Caption: everything else I've got a new mindset
Caption: life is too short to let things stay the
Caption: way they are I've learned that taking
Caption: ownership and responsibility is always
Caption: the right thing to do and it has
Caption: far-reaching effects remember I said
Caption: people are watching you and when they
Caption: see you bucking up and saying we're
Caption: gonna we're going to make this better
Caption: what can I do to make this better
Caption: they're gonna notice it's always the
Caption: right time to do the right thing as I
Caption: believe Martin Luther King jr. said now
Caption: every now and again you know on the flip
Caption: side of the coin we have to say goodbye
Caption: to some people and sometimes they're
Caption: really really good people we don't want
Caption: to see going and regardless of the
Caption: circumstances we let them know how much
Caption: we're going to miss them sometimes we
Caption: throw a party and you know celebrate all
Caption: the work and and you know special things
Caption: that they have done on our team and in
Caption: our organization you know we might even
Caption: you know talk about funny stories
Caption: remember that time you shot milk out of
Caption: your nose I'm really gonna miss I'm
Caption: really gonna miss you shooting things
Caption: out of your nose so I I began to wonder
Caption: what why why do we have to wait until
Caption: someone is leaving before we tell them
Caption: how awesome they are maybe if we had
Caption: told them in the first place they
Caption: wouldn't be leaving maybe you know so I
Caption: decided to run an experiment every
Caption: Friday afternoon I would post on our
Caption: slack a tribute to someone that I worked
Caption: with or someone within our organization
Caption: and this example Nakota was our Customer
Caption: Support Manager and as someone described
Caption: he does the work of 10,000 people Nakota
Caption: consistently went above and beyond to
Caption: make our customers happy and he is
Caption: awesome
Caption: now the drawing isn't important it's
Caption: just something fun that I like to do and
Caption: usually the thing that I said about that
Caption: person wasn't all that fantastic or
Caption: earth-shattering the real magic I want
Caption: you to get the real magic is what
Caption: everyone else said throughout the day
Caption: high fives
Caption: story after story it was just beautiful
Caption: all I did was simply start the
Caption: conversation and this experiment lasted
Caption: for about a year and I had so many
Caption: people come up to me and thanked me for
Caption: being either recognized in this way or
Caption: for just thanking me for recognizing
Caption: someone that they knew was awesome and
Caption: if they cared about it was it was really
Caption: a beautiful thing every one of us wants
Caption: to know that the things we do matter
Caption: that our work has a value in Seguin
Caption: Africans that we have value and
Caption: significance encouragement highlights a
Caption: person's strength so what it is you know
Caption: what is it it's positive reinforcement
Caption: they now go and do more of that awesome
Caption: thing that got them recognized and
Caption: reflecting back over more than ten years
Caption: of agile development I've come to the
Caption: conclusion that respect is the most
Caption: fundamental principle in that kind of
Caption: manifesto that respect is that key
Caption: ingredient to any significant positive
Caption: change to process improvement to the
Caption: success of your team respect at the
Caption: foundation is the is the fuel that's
Caption: going to enable you and your co-workers
Caption: to want to fight for one another and to
Caption: be do whatever you can to be successful
Caption: if you know me I can't go for very long
Caption: without talking about bacon so I submit
Caption: to you the highest award of excellence
Caption: the reverent geek bacon award when you
Caption: encourage someone as I said before it's
Caption: it's positive reinforcement they go out
Caption: and they do more of the awesome things
Caption: that you know you recognize them for and
Caption: it has a sick you know it has a
Caption: cascading effect those people go and
Caption: encourage other people and then to do
Caption: more awesome things it can you could be
Caption: the catalyst that starts you know a
Caption: chain of really awesome things in your
Caption: organization now I grew up in a family
Caption: where encouragement wasn't something
Caption: that was shared a lot ever really and
Caption: you know for me being encouraging is is
Caption: it's just kind of like it's not in my
Caption: nature it's kind of like
Caption: getting up to give a talk it's not
Caption: something that feels natural so it's
Caption: it's yet another skill that I've had to
Caption: learn and I believe it's a skill that
Caption: you can learn as well
Caption: so let me show you imagine you have a
Caption: co-worker named Mary and you can say
Caption: Mary I want you to know how much I
Caption: appreciate the database work that you do
Caption: for our team not only that but you're
Caption: always smiling and cheerful you make
Caption: everyone's day you light up a room when
Caption: you come in the office thank you for
Caption: being awesome Paul thank you for always
Caption: being willing to help I know I can
Caption: always count on you and I have a problem
Caption: I can talk to you and you come up with
Caption: all kinds of creative solutions you
Caption: always you can always help me get
Caption: unstuck thank you so much you are
Caption: awesome
Caption: mark thank you for always coming to work
Caption: fully clothed
Caption: and for wearing deodorant on most days
Caption: keep up the good work buddy see it's not
Caption: that hard you can find things to
Caption: encourage the people you work with so if
Caption: there's someone in your that you know
Caption: either recently or or maybe even far in
Caption: the past who has made a positive impact
Caption: on you let them know about it don't wait
Caption: until it's too late
Caption: ha I have one more story I want to share
Caption: with you I'm going to take you back to
Caption: 1982 Thanksgiving so in the u.s. we have
Caption: this holiday we call Thanksgiving and
Caption: stereotypical America it's mean it's
Caption: mostly overeating and then complaining
Caption: about you know eating too much and
Caption: watching some football but in our family
Caption: it was kind of a tradition that we would
Caption: all gather at my aunt and uncle's house
Caption: and it was kind of like a big family
Caption: reunion and we would make a lot of food
Caption: and we'd sit around and we we'd talk you
Caption: know get to catch up with family members
Caption: that we hadn't seen you know in a year
Caption: and I you know I really enjoyed these
Caption: because I got to hang out with my
Caption: cousins and and so forth and have a lot
Caption: of fun and their house was really nice
Caption: you know it's like a different kind of
Caption: atmosphere than what I was used to now
Caption: this particular fateful Thanksgiving
Caption: 1982 I discovered one of these in my
Caption: cousin's bedroom and I I don't know if I
Caption: spent the whole time you know playing
Caption: around with this trs-80 from Radio Shack
Caption: but I know that it made an impression on
Caption: my my aunt and uncle
Caption: and sometime after Thanksgiving my mom
Caption: got a phone call and we got back in we
Caption: got in the car and we drove couple hours
Caption: away to my aunt and uncle's house and
Caption: they're waiting for me was a cardboard
Caption: box with a trs-80 a cassette drive a
Caption: floppy drive a dot matrix printer a
Caption: bunch of cables and this book this one
Caption: kind and very generous act launched me
Caption: on a journey of careers and a love for
Caption: technology even I continue to be
Caption: impressed and inspired by my aunt and
Caption: uncle's example of investing not only in
Caption: in me and other lives in their family
Caption: but countless others I can't thank them
Caption: enough
Caption: for the impact that they made on my life
Caption: and my livelihood you have an amazing
Caption: opportunity to impact the people that
Caption: are around you your family your
Caption: co-workers your community you never know
Caption: if some act of kindness or in small
Caption: investment of your time a word of
Caption: encouragement could be that catalyst
Caption: that launches someone else on their
Caption: lifelong journey of passion and even
Caption: their livelihood
Caption: so when you walk out those doors today
Caption: you have a choice you can continue
Caption: learning and growing to share you can
Caption: continue to you know gain in knowledge
Caption: and experience I encourage you to share
Caption: your awesomeness with others your
Caption: adventure is just beginning so this is
Caption: my challenge to you regardless of your
Caption: age amount of experience your job title
Caption: you have amazing potential to impact
Caption: your workplace and your family in your
Caption: community and beyond in significant and
Caption: powerful ways go maximize your talents
Caption: go
Caption: be courageous go inspire others go and
Caption: be awesome thank you
Caption: [Applause]